

1.Types of backup
      *Full backup
      *Differential backup
      *Incremental Backup




2.what is full backup

   full backup is the process of making at least one additional copy of all data files that an organization wishes
to protect in a single backup operation.it is  is a complete backup of all files on the designated hard drive.




3.What is a differential backup

     A differential backup is one practical method for backing up single files or folders that change every day 
in backup strategies. A differential backup backs up only the files that changed since the last full backup.
For example, suppose you do a full backup on Sunday. On Monday you back up only the files that changed since Sunday
on Tuesday you back up only the files that changed since Sunday, and so on until the next full backup.



4.Differential Backup .vs Full Backup

   Differential backups are quicker than full backups because so much less data is being backed up.
But the amount of data being backed up grows with each differential backup task until the next full back up.
    Differential backups are more flexible than full backups, but still unwieldy to do more than about once a day, 
especially as the next full backup approaches.


5.What is an incremental backup

     Incremental backups also back up only the changed data, but it only backs up the data that has changed since 
the last backup -- be it a full or incremental backup. They are sometimes called "differential incremental backups,
" while differential backups are sometimes called "cumulative incremental backups." Confused yet? Don't be.

    Let's suppose that you do an incremental backup on Tuesday, you'll only back up the data that changed since
the incremental backup on Monday. The result is a much smaller and faster backup. The advantage of incremental
 backups is the shorter the time intervals between backups, with fewer data to be backed up.


6.full backup vs. incremental backup

Compare with full backup, the incremental backup takes less backup time and produces a smaller image file.
And compare with differential backup, an incremental backup will save your space better. 
That's the main reason why most people choose to make an incremental backup.





There are two broadly defined approaches to backup: on-premises backup and remote backup. Either route (or both)
 may be appropriate for your nonprofit.

On-Premises Backup
In an on-premises setup, you can copy your data to a second hard drive, other media, or a shared drive, either manually or at specified intervals.
With this setup, all the data is within your reach — and therein lies both its value and its risk. You can always access your information when necessary,
but that information is vulnerable to loss, whether through theft (someone breaking in and stealing equipment) or damage (such as a leaky water pipe or
 a natural disaster).

Remote Backup
In remote backup, your computer automatically sends your data to a remote center at specified intervals. 
To perform a backup, you simply install the software on every computer containing data you want to back up, set up a backup schedule, 
and identify the files and folders to be copied. The software then takes care of backing up the data for you.
With remote backup solutions, you don't incur the expense of purchasing backup equipment, and in the event of a disaster you can still
 recover critical data. This makes remote backup ideal for small nonprofits (say, 2 to 10 people) that need to back up critical information such as
 donor lists, fundraising campaign documents, and financial data, but lack the equipment, expertise, or inclination to set up dedicated on-site storage.