CLOUD: it is a term used to describe a global network of servers, each with a unique function. 
      The cloud is not a physical entity, but instead is a vast network of remote servers around the globe which are hooked together and meant to operate as
      a single ecosystem. These servers are designed to either store and manage data, run applications or deliver content or a service such as streaming videos,
      web mail, office productivity software or social media. Instead of accessing files and data from a local or personal computer, you are accessing them 
      online from any Internet-capable device—the information will be available anywhere you go and anytime you need it.


"The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers.
 Cloud servers are located in data centers all over the world.



CLOUD COMPUTING:cloud is a metaphore for internet.
   1.Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources,
     especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user.
     The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet.

   2. Clouds may be limited to a single organization (enterprise clouds),
    be available to many organizations (public cloud), or a combination of both (hybrid cloud).

   3. Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of scale.
      it allows companies to avoid or minimize up-front IT infrastructure costs.

   4.Proponents also claim that cloud computing allows enterprises to get their applications up and running faster,
     with improved manageability and less maintenance,and that it enables IT teams to more rapidly adjust resources
     to meet fluctuating and unpredictable demand.

   5.Cloud providers typically use a "pay-as-you-go" model, which can lead to unexpected operating expenses 
    if administrators are not familiarized with cloud-pricing models.

   6.These services are broadly divided into three categories:
     Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).

   7.A cloud service has three distinct characteristics that differentiate it from traditional web hosting.
     It is sold on demand, typically by the minute or the hour;it is elastic -- a user can have as much or
     as little of a service as they want at any given time; and the service is fully managed by the provider
     (the consumer needs nothing but a personal computer and Internet access).
 

characteristics and benefits:
Cloud computing boasts several attractive benefits for businesses and end users.
Five of the main benefits of cloud computing are:

a.Self-service provisioning: End users can spin up compute resources for almost any type of workload on demand. 
          This eliminates the traditional need for IT administrators to provision and manage compute resources.

b.Elasticity: Companies can scale up as computing needs increase and scale down again as demands decrease.
          This eliminates the need for massive investments in local infrastructure, which may or may not remain active.

c.pay per use: Compute resources are measured at a granular level, enabling users to pay only for the resources and workloads they use.

d.Workload resilience: Cloud service providers often implement redundant resources to ensure resilient storage and
           to keep users' important workloads running -- often across multiple global regions.

e.Migration flexibility: Organizations can move certain workloads to or from the cloud -- or to different cloud platforms
         -- as desired or automatically for better cost savings or to use new services as they emerge.


Types of cloud computing services:
Although cloud computing has changed over time, it has been divided into three broad service categories: 
infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS) and software as a service (SaaS).

a.IaaS providers,ur already developed server u will deply there nd to run that sw whatever else is needed like db,nw etc u can use that from cloud.
 such as AWS, supply a virtual server instance and storage, as well as APIs that enable users to migrate workloads 
        to a VM. Users have an allocated storage capacity and can start, stop, access and configure the VM and storage as desired. IaaS providers 
        offer small, medium, large, extra-large and memory- or compute-optimized instances, in addition to customized instances, for various workload needs.

b.In the PaaS modelhere u will develope a new sw and use everything like nw,db and deply that over there in clod.
 cloud providers host development tools on their infrastructures. Users access these tools over the internet using APIs,
       web portals or gateway software. PaaS is used for general software development, and many PaaS providers host the software after it's developed.
       Common PaaS providers include Salesforce's Force.com, AWS Elastic Beanstalk and Google App Engine.

c.SaaS here only u have to deplo already developed sw in the clod.
  is a distribution model that delivers software applications over the internet; these applications are often called web services.
        Users can access SaaS applications and services from any location using a computer or mobile device that has internet access.
        One common example of a SaaS application is Microsoft Office 365 for productivity and email services.


Deployment models:
It is mainly of three types private,public,hybrid.

Private Cloud:Private cloud is cloud infrastructure operated solely for a single organization, whether managed internally or by a third party, 
      and hosted either internally or externally. Undertaking a private cloud project requires significant engagement to
      virtualize the business environment, and requires the organization to reevaluate decisions about existing resources.

Public Cloud:A cloud is called a "public cloud" when the services are rendered over a network that is open for public use.
      Public cloud services may be free. Technically there may be little or no difference between public and private cloud architecture, 
      however, security consideration may be substantially different for services (applications, storage, and other resources) that are made available by
      a service provider for a public audience and when communication is effected over a non-trusted network. Generally, public cloud service providers 
      like Amazon Web Services (AWS), IBM, Oracle, Microsoft and Google own and operate the infrastructure at their data center and access is generally
      via the Internet. 

Hybrid Cloud:Hybrid cloud is a composition of two or more clouds (private, community or public) that remain distinct entities but are bound together,
     offering the benefits of multiple deployment models. Hybrid cloud can also mean the ability to connect collocation, managed and/or dedicated services 
     with cloud resources.A hybrid cloud service crosses isolation and provider boundaries so that it can't be simply put in one category of 
     private, public, or community cloud service. It allows one to extend either the capacity or the
     capability of a cloud service, by aggregation, integration or customization with another cloud service.

other-
Community Cloud:
     Community cloud shares infrastructure between several organizations from a specific community with common concerns 
     (security, compliance, jurisdiction, etc.), whether managed internally or by a third-party, and either hosted internally or externally.
     The costs are spread over fewer users than a public cloud (but more than a private cloud), so only some of the cost savings potential
     of cloud computing are realized.


Security of cc:
    Security remains a primary concern for businesses contemplating cloud adoption -- especially public cloud adoption. 
    Public cloud service providers share their underlying hardware infrastructure between numerous customers, as public cloud is a multi-tenant environment.
    This environment demands copious isolation between logical compute resources. At the same time, access to public cloud storage and compute resources 
    is guarded by account login credentials.Many organizations bound by complex regulatory obligations and governance standards are still hesitant to place
    data or workloads in the public cloud for fear of outages, loss or theft. However, this resistance is fading, as logical isolation has proven reliable,
    and the addition of data encryption and various identity and access management tools has improved security within the public cloud.


working:
   To understand the workings of a cloud computing system, it is easier to divide it into two sections: the front end and the back end. 
   They are connected to each other through a network, usually the Internet.
   The front end is the side of the computer user or client. The back end is ‘the cloud’ section of the system.
   The front end consists of the client’s computer or computer network. Also the application essential to access the cloud computing system.
   It is not necessary that all cloud computing systems have the same user interface.
   On the back end of the cloud technology system, there are various computers, servers and data storage systems that make up the cloud.

Advantages:
1.sold on demand:we can by per minute or per hour as our choice it is not like we have to buy some certain amount we can change it by our own wish also
  so it will cost efficient as we paying for that much we need.
2.Elastic:the company can use as much as it want when the demand increases and it can sacle down if the demnad decreases so it will be helpful for companies.
 mostly for the startup companies as they don't have that much amount initially.
3.Service is fully managed by the provider:The company do't have to do much it just have to select which type of cloud it wants and for howmany time.
  and only high speed internet is needed.

some other benifits:

Accessible from anywhere:
Applications and data are not tied to a device. They are accessible from anywhere, enabling real-time collaboration by remote teams.

Flexible and scalable:
 Cloud-based applications are infinitely customizable. It is easy to increase power, storage, and bandwidth as users’ needs change.

Cost-effective:
 Businesses only pay for what they use, usually on a per-month, per-seat basis. There is no hardware taking up space and using electricity 24/7.

Hassle-free updates:
 Web-based software is constantly updated. The vendor handles maintenance, backups, and troubleshooting.

Fast:
 Service is delivered on demand through a global network of secure data centers that are constantly upgraded for maximum efficiency and performance.

Secure:
Information is not vulnerable to a flood, fire, natural disaster, or hardware failure in one location.
 Security protocols and infrastructure are constantly analyzed and updated to address new threats.

Factors:
1.Virtualization:It is like some space to store data to all the companies now in 21st century doing it manually without using internet
 it is really time consuming so to save the time and make it easier to store the data we use this.
2.Distributed computing:The cloud is not centralised by any computer so we can use the cloud bu any computer in any manner.
3.Access To high speed of internet is needed to use cloud computing.


