list:
1.It is mutable so we can add or delete or do any kind of change in it. 
2.Here we can write same value multiple times in it.
3.It is ordered so the sequence will not change how we want to store values will be stored like that only.
4.values can be accessed with the use of index.
5.slicing can be done here.
6.it is written inside square brackets separeted by comma..

Tuple:
1.It is immutable so can not do add or delete type of operations on it is a kind of read only data type.
2.Here we can write same value multiple times if needed.
3.It is ordered so the sequence will not change how we want to store values will be stored like that only.
4.values can be accessed with the use of index.
5.slicing can be done here.
6.it is written inside parenthesis separated by comma.
7.it is more time efficient and space efficient.

Set:
1.it is mutable we can make changes in it.
2.here we can not write same value multiple times because it will store that only once.
3.It is not ordered so it store the values in any order we can not store the values as our will.
4.values can not be accessed as we dont know which value is stored at which index.
5.we can not do slicing dirctly on it.
6.we can do mathematical notations on it like union,intersection,difference,symmentric difference .
7.it is written inside curly braces but if we clear it will print set().
8.it follows the hassing mechanism so every element should be immutable only here 
9.in set only we can use tuple and frozen set or normal elements.
10.reading data is faster over here due to heapping mechanism.

frozen set:
1.it is Immutable we can not change anything in it.
2. frozen sets can be used as key in Dictionary or as element of another set.
3.it is unordered like set only.
4.values can not be accessed as we dont know which value is stored at which index.
5.we can not do slicing dirctly on it.
6.written inside curly braces separeted by comma.
7.it is written inside curly braces but if we clear it will print frozenset().


dictionary:
1.Here the keys are immutable and values can be mutable or immutable.
2.here we can write same values multiple times in it.
3.it is unordered so it can store the values in any order.
4.values can be accessed with the help of key.
5.we can not perform slicing on it.
6.it is written inside curly braces and if we clear it will print {}.
7.the key and value are separeted by colon and items are separeted by comma.
8.Reading and retriving data is very fast over here as we can use Keys for that.

string:
1.it is immutable so we can not change the string.
2.Here we can write same value multiple times.
3.Square brackets can be used to access elements of the string.
4.String literals in python are surrounded by either single quotation marks, or double quotation marks.
5.we can perform slicing on it.
6.values can be accessed with the help of index.
7.we can use operators on it to do some operations but the operetares will work different then that of number in this case.
 
Number:
1.There are three numeric types in Python: int; float; complex.
2.it is immutable we can not change it.
3.we can use operators to do operation on it.
3.values can be accessed  with the help of index.
4.we can convert one type to other type.
5.It is written directly without any noation if we write it inside cotation it wiil convert as string.

